# Where Brittania Fit in the Age of Emotions

A fictional account of Brittania's emotions during the second quarter of the 21st century. Generated by Claude Sonnet 4.6.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The second quarter of the 21st century. What a time it was to be alive. There was just one condition: be emotive, condone expression. The Age of Reason had ended with the establishment of large-scale artificial intelligence systems. 'Time to get back to the basics. Feelings and emotions should take precedence now that there is a solid foundation of computer logic that people can stand on top of', those wise ones proposed. The sheer breadth and depth of where this condition could go and did go was problematic for some demographics during this time period. And now is when Brittania's situation in this context must be discussed at length, in order to show some of the issues occurring in a world that was still significantly influenced by Brittania, yet Brittania-centric not so much. See the story [A fictional report on the Thracian challenge to Brittania, starting around the second quarter of the 21st century](https://github.com/Changissnz/brittania-s_relationship_with_thrace_during_its_decline__claude_generated) for more on that.

The backend development of emerging technologies during this time period conserved its optimism and remained adamant on product and principle. However, the frontend that includes marketing and human resources went off the deep end in several respects. The financial numbers were rather odd, and strongly suggested preferential state backing as a form of buffering against possible sources of risk. Simply put, the financial numbers did not always make sense. Attempting to make sense of many of those numbers would disrupt one's welfare of mind.

The problem of ego tripping. Ego was a problem in many aspects of human affairs. Brittania, despite its affinity for cool and calm composure (although some say this characterization is an ideal misconceived with Brittania's leadership during an Enlightenment period in the western portion of Europe), was not immune to this. Its marketers pushed hard. Its bankers pulled heavy. It was not hermitic, yet was also not impervious due to its ongoing supply chain dependencies with India and Schinia.

Chastising carries its errors. Chastising Brittania for its slip-ups during this time period would not have gone well with some of its members. The reason, as with other human realms, was simple. There was their way, the Brittanian way, or the highway.

The objective of Western initiatives in technology somewhat required that ego must be present. Hard work and discovery was not enough. Character must be there for the representative voice to resonate across the entire room.

Brittania, from some perspectives, did not mess up because it went soft. The world was changing, and leadership in Asia Major was wanting to drive hard bargains with the West. Brittania messed up because it remained hard to the point of being a cruel miser, during its diminishing territorial influence.

---

Note that the Brittanian kernel operated differently than Brittania of America. Brittania of America was, in many ways, not as refined, but tolerant to the point of letting minorities step all over each other, if it meant the best one could be killed or disappeared. That kind of tolerance would have been viewed as purely pragmatic. There was no way to police all of the gold-digging divas, for example.

---

Brittania was on the side of censorship, but the same went with Germania, Gaullia, and Hispania. Relatively, Brittania was still more tolerant than the others, especially Hispania, despite Hispania's rise into a more wealthy coalition during this time period. Indeed, it was Hispania's superior wealth that made that ethno-realm the least appreciative of intellectual advances overall, since technological advances that come out of intellectual ones carried the implication that some individuals could become adequately rich, without having to engage in fiat money scams.

Brittania's censorship was predominantly on copyright material. It, along with Germania, played the greatest roles in intellectual property protections, except Germania was more socialist-minded in its defense.

Censorship laws, themselves, were one of those gold mines in the services sector. And the services sector, especially in the United States, was undergoing a balkanization of sorts. And yes, this balkanization was based in large part on ethnicity. Foreigners wanted influence. Foreigners wanted to maintain profitable ties to their relatives, something that went along with the logic of close ones such as siblings and associates wanting a larger portion of the capital jackpot.

The wormhole nature of civil laws entitled those that live to play the game of corporate thievery, to put it in obvious terms.

Some cases show the morbidity of these laws hard at work. A person's income will barely cover their living expenses. The person thinks they will be able to secure funding after the first few weeks of the release of their project. Then they realize that it was not Schinians that stole their intellectual property. Instead, it could have been a Brittanian that staged a corporate takeover. And with that corporate takeover, the idea was legally theirs. And they outsource the scaled development of that idea to an Indian firm, in order to maintain healthy diplomatic ties with the southern half of Asia Major.

Civil discontent had been fostering in the years leading up to the start of the second quarter of the 21st century. Those sentiments were elaborated on in [A fictional account about Brittania in the context of corporatist arrangements yielding Schinia more and Brittania less](https://github.com/Changissnz/brittania_corporatism_and_schinia__claude_generated) and [A fictional briefing of the far-right and American President Crumbs](https://github.com/Changissnz/crumbs_for_the_far-right__the_far-right_for_crumbs__claude_generated). The cooling phase, discussed in [A fictional characterization of growing power bestowed to personality cults, during the emergence of large-scale artificial intelligence](https://github.com/Changissnz/cults_of_personality_during_the_second_quarter_of_the_21st__claude_generated), did not excuse the desperation from some individuals and organizations. Civil law could be a tool for them to score some money.

In the years leading up to the Schlavian Civil War, Brittania also played an outsized role as a warning agent to Westerners: "the Schlavians! The Schlavians hacked the system! The Schlavians are feeding lies into our information channels." That short but impactful time period paved the way for concentrating authority.

It was mainly rightful for Brittania to be alarmist. But it was also the kind of alarmism that went up against civil laws. For example, there was no default honor in hitting someone. The authority channels have to give the go-ahead to hit someone.

So at the beginning of the second quarter of the 21st century, it was not only imperial aggression that many felt needed to be put in its place and shrunk below a minimal. It was also certain individuals that needed to back off, and certain organizations that needed to be disintegrated. Brittania was the one that led efforts to bring reasoning machines into this world.

But as for the emotions? Dark ones were stockpiling up. Pestilence had become a thing in the West. And if it was not the deliberate and conniving menaces, it was morons that just had to be annoying and make mistakes. This might come off as harsh and insensitive, but let the reminder of there being choice for the capable be explicitly stated.

The logic is hard. Reason became too complex that the commands from it had to be taken as order. And somewhere in the mix, there were bad feelings. If there was not an outlet before, it had time to build up some more. If there was an outlet for release sometime in the near future, the machine world could take it away.

Brittania's relationship with its more unpleasant neighbors during this time period, especially Thrace (see [A fictional report on the Thracian challenge to Brittania, starting around the second quarter of the 21st century](https://github.com/Changissnz/brittania-s_relationship_with_thrace_during_its_decline__claude_generated)) was similar to how an abusive spouse was, during their low points. And Brittania could not, out of its pragmatics, acknowledge the nature of this relationship. That omission was reasonable. But underneath, there were a lot of emotional forces in play. The power, the superiority. Not only did Brittania, during this time period, not recognize the rising stars of India and Schinia, where organizations had fostered a resilience and political ideology centering around anti-Brittanian sentiments, due in no small part to being challenged by Hispania's growing influence, Brittania also could not face the fact that its expertise was also being increasingly challenged by the Learned Ones, elite scientists and steelers of the Northern Arabian Sects. During these challenges, Brittania wanted to be viewed as the reasonable one. But a reasonable one with such great challenges must have resorted to haste, impulse, and chaotic creativity, those emotional forces, to maintain their ground.

Where there is automation, there is cheapness as the product. The infrastructure responsible for all of that automation may be expensive. Decades of development in the making for that to happen. Expertise from all corners of the world for the planning procedures. Artificial intelligence, in many ways, cheapened human intellect. Now, intellectual classes around the world and since time immemorial face challenges during certain political time periods. They are not exactly moral authorities. They are not martial representatives or legal institutions. Some intellectuals could choose those career pathways. But career pathways such as those de-emphasize independent thought. In the case of Brittania, its shrinking world had compelled its leadership to consolidate political decision-making. It was, in no way, as concentrated as Germanian politics in authoritative periods. But this big decision of Brittania meant that it, along with other great powers during this time period, could not afford to uphold intellectualism as the highest mark. The mainstream thinking became 'Artificial intelligence spews out answers. Individuals can accept those answers at face value. If they don't, they can silently disagree. But do obey. Obey'.

Brittania fit as an ordinary subject of feelings and emotions, just like all the other ethno-realms. There was no amount of reason, through civil negotiation, that would yield the way if the way was already claimed. Due to its Western nature, it also had a stronger tradition of being at liberty to practice feelings and emotions, despite its colder nature to that of Hispania.
